[#3975] Service fetch errors (#3979)
open-formulieren/open-forms: docs/developers/backend/service-fetch.rst

.. _developers_backend_service_fetch:

=============
Service fetch
=============

With 'service fetch' we refer to the ability to perform HTTP requests during
the form logic evaluation.

Flow
----

From the admin, the form designer configures a logic rule with the action ``fetch-from-service``.
In the JSON definition of the action, there is a ``variable`` parameter which points to a user-defined variable.
The corresponding variable contains an attribute ``service_fetch_configuration`` which contains a reference to
a :class:`ServiceFetchConfiguration`. This configuration specifies:

- the :class:`Service` that will be used to perform the request
- the endpoint that will be queried
- any query parameters
- any expression to apply to the response

> While the form is being filled in by a user, the method :meth:`openforms.submissions.form_logic.evaluate_form_logic`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While the form is being filled in by a user, the :meth:`openforms.submissions.form_logic.evaluate_form_logic` method
```

:shrug:

performs the request specified in the logic rule action if the trigger evaluates to ``True``.

> The data in the response from the external service is processed with any expression (jq or json-logic) specified in the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The data in the response from the external service is processed with any expression (``jq`` or JsonLogic) specified in the
```
fine to leave it as is as well
